---
layout: post
title: Goodbye, August - a reflection
---

August -- another month of uncertainty, unfamiliarity, but also immense growth. 

August was the month I experienced unfamiliarity -- while unfamiliarity is not something I am a stranger to, it was still slightly terrifying, though exciting too. The month was kickstarted off with RSI's Hell Week, where we rushed out our final papers and prepared for our final symposium presentations. The virtual nature of the symposium did not dampen my nervousness before it; rather, it exacerbated it, as it was one of the few times I had had to give a presentation via Zoom, and conveying my expressions was definitely a lot more difficult. Though I would say that it was precisely because of my unfamiliarity that I learnt so much more -- whether it be small tips like looking at the camera, not at the screen, or just about honing my "presentation mindset" -- RSI was, and will always be a defining experience for me; I'm truly grateful that I was put through all of its discomfort and uncertainty, for that was what made it so meaningful for me.

August was the month I confronted uncertainty -- I faced my concerns, my fears about the future head on. The end of RSI also meant a plunge into considerations about university applications, which was something that scared me, and still scares me today. Prior to this year, I had always assumed my path was clear in my mind, that I knew exactly where I wanted to go, what I wanted to pursue. But, specifically this year, a slew of unprecedented circumstances inadvertently threw me off; there were so many more practical considerations I had neglected inadvertently when I previously envisioned my future (one of which being my family rooted in Singapore, whereas I had previously desired studying overseas and potentially staying abroad for longer). 

Admittedly, it felt as if I was overthinking, especially because most people I know have yet to truly consider this, living their carefree lives while putting it off as something their future selves will deal with eventually. But this is probably just a taste of what "adulting" will feel like -- the realization that we have to think beyond our present needs and wants, and recognize our future selves as real people whom we have to look out for. I'd like to think that I've always been looking out for my future self, making decisions that I know will benefit her. But perhaps I have been doing so too idealistically, knowing that, e.g. making a sacrifice now is "beneficial for my future", but not truly analyzing the practicalities of it -- what precisely about it is beneficial, and what else can I do beyond that to benefit myself?

I'm not very sure how to put it in words, because it after all is just a feeling, but thinking about this has been eye-opening of some sorts, though it is plaguing as well. There were days in August when I couldn't help but envy my friends, who focus on living in the moment, living worry-free; their days are reminiscent of the halcyon days of my childhood, or even days that were not too long ago, back in January this year, when I was approaching a whole new life in JC with wide-eyed wonder. It is true that I have made decisions this year that brought me emotional anguish and burden, and perhaps even triggered the epiphany of "adulting"; sometimes, I do wonder if I regret those decisions, and whether there is still a chance of reversing them. But there is really no point in regret, or even in constantly ruminating about our past actions, because that has no concrete impact on the present, or on the future; what matters more is what we choose to do moving on from here, how we choose to deal with the results of our past choices. And, rather than regretting this "transition to adulting", I've decided to take heart in the fact that this is something I would have had to face eventually; facing it earlier may mean a greater burden now, but at least I'm just a bit more enlightened now, and am more prepared for what's to come in the future.

At the end of this all, reflecting back on my month still feels poignant in some sorts. Yes, in the grand scheme of things, it is but a single month out of 12 in a year, out of 240 in a decade, and out of hundreds in a lifetime; yet, this was a month full of emotions and realizations, and I can't help but feel like I am stepping out of August renewed. A lot of thoughts, or even epiphanies struck me this month (most of which are too strange to elaborate on here); that's probably a natural part of the process of understanding myself, and is something that is likely to keep happening over the remaining few months of this year. In all honesty, I am grateful that I can now bid August goodbye, but I am also thankful that August happened, for I learnt so much more about myself than I ever would have without it.

To end off, here's a [song](https://youtu.be/lTqoKjCqqew) that I find particularly nostalgic, mostly because my friend and I dueted it just a while back (before August), when I was still in my worry-free state of mind, breezing through life as it came. Listening to it evinces some bittersweetness, but also some peace of mind -- that perhaps things did not turn out as they were planned, but I am still glad that they happened the way they did.
